---
title: Getaborg
ref: getaborg
excerpt: Karrot is a sleek and user-friendly open source tool where people can coordinate pickups to save food from being wasted and to share it freely.
ingress-text: Karrot is a sleek and user-friendly open source tool where people can coordinate pickups to save food from being wasted and to share it freely.
image: "/uploads/logo-karrot.png"
links:
- title: "Karrot's project page"
  url: https://foodsaving.world/en/karrot
- title: Karrot on Github
  url: https://github.com/yunity/karrot-backend
contact:
- name: Bruno Chies
#  image: "/uploads/petter2-crop.gif"
  mail: bruno@solikyl.se
  organisation: Solidariskt Kylskåp
  organisation-link: http://solikyl.se/
tags:
- Development
- Design
- Discussion
categories:
- Sharing is caring
- hackathon-1
---

Gothenburg needs an open-source gifting/sharing platform! Thousands of people are already sharing at give-away (bortskänkes) groups on Facebook or other smaller websites that are based on closed systems of classified ads, such as bortskankes.se. However, none of these tools have a nice user experience nor the features for sharing both within closed groups (say, among friends or within an organization) and sharing openly with the public. There is no open-source alternative out there for this true gift economy to reach its potential.

During this occasion we’ll try out different design methods and evaluate existing tools, and we’ll work mostly on design and user experience. People with this particular background are most welcome, but also backend and frontend developers for consultation and to start playing with code (there’s an ambition to build from Karrot’s backend). People who are already engaged in gifting practices using existing tools will also be invited for a participatory design process.

This project is an initiative of people with know-how in local sharing groups and is supported by officials in the city of Gothenburg who are interested in seeking finance for its development, in order to promote a more sustainable use of resources.
